They're Minerals, Marie!
Sedimentary rocks are formed at the surface of the Earth, either in water or on land. They are layered accumulations of sediments, fragments of rocks, minerals, or animal or plant material. If a layer of sediment is buried beneath overlying rock, the layer becomes compacted and may form a layer of sedimentary rock. The sediment becomes cemented together by minerals and chemicals or is held together by electrical attraction. Sand and gravel deposits on beaches or in river bars look like the sandstone and conglomerate they may become. Compacted and dried mud flats harden into shale. Mud and shells settling on sea floors can cement into limestone. Sedimentary rocks are important sources of natural resources like coal, fossil fuels, drinking water or ores. Fire is a chemical reaction between fuel and oxygen. Heat is necessary to ignite the reaction. Once a fire has been started, it creates enough heat as a byproduct to keep igniting new fuels. In nature, fuels can be preheated by the sun. This can make them more likely to ignite, either by human error, as with a dropped cigarette or unattended campfire, or by lightning. Fuels themselves are abundant, especially in forests that have not burned in recent years. Oxygen is readily available in the air we breathe. It has about 21% oxygen in it. The positive effects of fire include stimulating growth and maintaining various ecological systems. The negative effects include water contamination, soil erosion, atmospheric pollution and hazard to human and animal life. An earthquake is the result of a sudden release of energy in the Earth's crust producing seismic waves. Earthquakes occur most often along geological faults. They are measured using observations from seismometers. Magnitude 3 or lower earthquakes are mostly undetectable and magnitude 7 or greater can cause serious damage over large areas, depending on their depth. The shallower an earthquake, the more damage to structures it causes. At the Earth's surface, earthquakes manifest themselves by shaking and sometimes displacing the ground. When the epicenter of a large earthquake is located offshore, the seabed may be displaced sufficiently to cause a tsunami. Earthquakes can also trigger landslides and volcanic activity.